hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
really fun geometry problem start out
with a triangle where one angle is equal
to 20 degrees and another angle is equal
to 80 degrees now draw a line segment
such that this length right here is
equal to this side line the challenge is
to solve for the measure of this angle
using only elementary geometry you're
not allowed to use trigonometry or other
methods I think Barry and I also think
up shade the VAR a from India for
emailing me this problem can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution so I admit this was a very
challenging problem and I was not able
to figure out the trick on my own but I
was able to find the solution online and
I'd like to present it because it uses a
clever trick so let's get started by
considering the big triangle well solve
for the third angle this will be equal
to 180 minus 20 minus 80 which equals 80
degrees now this triangle has two angles
that are equal to 80 degrees so these
sides opposite them will be equal this
will be an isosceles triangle well put
these sides in green to show that they
have equal length now let's zoom out a
little bit and here's the clever trick
along the top side of the triangle
construct an equilateral triangle as
illustrated so all of these side lengths
have equal lengths to the green side
since it's an equilateral triangle all
of the angles will be equal to 60
degrees so this is 60 degrees this other
angle will be 60 degrees in total so
this will be 40 degrees and here we have
another 60 degree angle since the very
top angle is 80 degrees we know that
this will be 80 minus 60 which is 20
degrees
now let's connect these two points and
furthermore we'll focus on this triangle
now two of the side lengths are equal to
each other because they both have the
same length as a greenside so this is an
isosceles triangle with a central angle
of 40 degrees which means its other two
equal angles are 180 minus 40 which
equals 140 divided by 2 which is 70
degrees so here we have the 70 degree
angle and the other angle is also equal
to 70 degrees so if we rule of 60
degrees from it this will be equal to 10
degrees now let's go back to this
diagram and we want to solve for this
angle over here how can we do that well
here's the other insight look at these
two triangles now they will be congruent
to each other by side-angle-side because
both of these triangles have a blue side
then a 20 degree angle and then a green
side this means they're up to sangil's
will be equal to each other so this
angle here will be equal to 80 degrees
plus 70 degrees which is 150 degrees
finally we can solve for the angle that
we want to this will be equal to 180
minus 150 which is 30 degrees and that's
it did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video these math videos
which can be watched for free on YouTube
inspire and build confidence for people
around the world and they have over a
hundred million views please subscribe
for free to get the news videos and you
can email me a puzzle or mat topic presh
and mind your decisions calm if you so
choose you can check out my merchandise
which is listed on teespring you can get
my books which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon for exclusive rewards thanks for
watching and thanks for your support